# Clickistrano

Clickistrano is a simple Sinatra app for performing Capistrano deployments
using a simple web interface. Clickistrano might be useful for you if:

* You have members of your team who need to run deployments, but don't keep a
  copy of your source checked out (e.g. product managers, QA engineers).
* You deploy using environment tasks (e.g. `cap qa deploy`)
* You use Github or your own private server for source control hosting.

## Installation and Configuration

Clickistrano isn't currently published as a gem, since I see little advantage in
doing so. Just pick a good directory for the server, and check it out:

    $ git clone http://github.com/outoftime/clickistrano.git

Clickistrano is configured with a `config.yml` file in the root directory.
It requires the following keys:

<dt>adapter</dt>
<dd>Either "github" or "local"</dd>
<dt>account</dt>
<dd>The github account that hosts your repository (GitHub adapter only)</dd>
<dt>repository</dt>
<dd>The name of the repository on github, or the path to the local git repo</dd>
<dt>token</dt>
<dd>Your github API token. Go to the 'account' screen on GitHub to get this
(GitHub adapter only)</dd>
<dt>environment</dt>
<dd>The environment you want to deploy to (i.e., cap &lt;environment&gt; deploy)</dd>
<dt>cap</dt>
<dd>Path to the cap executable on your system</dd>

If you're running this on a new machine, you will need to add the machine's SSH
public key to your deployment environment.

## Running it

To start clickistrano as a daemon, run the following from the clickistrano
directory:

    $ thin start -R config.ru -d

There is also a sample init script in `example/clickistrano.sh`

## Dependencies (all available on Gemcutter)

* capistrano
* escape
* json
* open4
* rack
* sinatra
* thin
* grit (local adapter only)

## How it works

When you access the front page (by default, localhost:4567 - see the Sinatra
docs for how to change that), you are presented with a simple form asking for
the git branch to deploy from. When the form is submitted, Clickistrano
downloads the `Capfile` and `config/deploy.rb` files
from the specified branch of your repository on GitHub, and then forks a process
that runs the deployment. The web interface redirects to a page showing the
deployment status and a live-updating view of the deployment log.

## Contributors

* Mat Brown &lt;mat@patch.com&gt;

Feel free to contact me with questions.


## This is free software

This software is released in the public domain, and may be distributed and
modified with no restrictions. The author relinquishes all copyright on this
software to the maximum extent permitted by law.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
